my name is Barry Pucci I teach history
emeritus college are the City University
of New York my presentation today is to
give an overview of the history of
fascism in the Ukraine and show that it
is an indigenous it is now very much an
indigenous movement part of a long
history in Ukraine sponsored both by
German imperialism and American
imperialism for their own purposes but
actually the history is even broader
than that and I think one of the things
that is really that I'm going to really
try to bring out is the fact that the
United States has done a terrific job
from the point of view of the CIA and US
history or US imperialism from the
imperialist point of view of promoting
fascism and keeping it alive and
allowing it to re-establish itself in
the 21st century in the Ukraine far I
would say that US promotion of fascism
and has been more successful even than
German Nazi incredibles well let me
start at the beginning in the beginning
Ukrainians and Russians were one people
united by a common language a common
religion a common state a common culture
common territory and a common history
the first Russian state as many of you
know was Kiev and ruse established an
860 in the Common Era lasting until the
12 40s during this time there was no
distinction between Ukrainians and
Russians as there should not be today
Kiev in Rus territories extended from
the Western Carpathian Mountains which
today are a border between the Ukraine
and Slovakia Hungary and Romania all the
way east to the Volga River that was
Kiev and ruse this population converted
as one people to the Greek Orthodox
Christianity
988 under their ruler Prince Vladimir
who himself converted in Crimea a church
hold a very sacred to both Russians and
Ukrainians still marks
that's very spot to this day the
territories which today are most often
associated with extreme Ukrainian
nationalism and anti-russian sentiment
particularly the territory known as
Galicia in northwestern Ukraine and also
northern bukovina which is just to the
south both in the Carpathians do not
have actually this long anti-russian
history or sentiment as is often claimed
these territories were founded in
settled by Russians and even the
famously anti-russian city of the live
or the vault depending if you're
dependent of Russian I was founded by
Kiev in rulers in the early 12 hundreds
Ukrainian and Russian us are one people
and we can go back as far as so out of
this time if you wish 2500 years ago
and garroted is himself lived and rode
lived among and wrote among the people
in that time so the origins of the
divisions between Ukrainians and
Russians begins with the Mongol conquest
in the 1200s and then really takes root
in the 1300s when Galicia is conquered
by Lithuania and actually lived the way
me accompany more than galicia caliph
conquered the territories someone to the
east and north of Alenia and to the
south or vena and even further south
into central and southern Ukraine by
1444 though the Lithuanian mana he
taken over by a Polish monarchy because
of intermarriage and polish kings ruled
galicia
until 772 1772 but it was the Polish
land owning aristocracy that changed
things for the Ukrainian population
there they imposed a very brutal form of
serfdom particularly in terms of the use
of the cord a kind of chain gang
slave labor and they also imposed a
cultural religious persecution or
oppression the serfdom so I'll get into
that in a moment many Ukrainian peasants
did flee from this and they went to the
forests or the steppes and joined small
societies of free armed men called
Cossacks of course that is a Turkish
word meaning free man and like in a lot
of Slavic languages Arabic Turkish words
Cossacks existed of course both in the
Ukraine and Russia the Polish nobility
in order to tighten their control over
the Ukrainian peasantry created a new
church and this is a very important
historical event
relating to later on to Ukrainian
fascism this church was called the
Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church or the
Union Church what it unified really was
the Ukrainian peasantry with the papacy
as well as with the Polish nobility this
church was established of the infamous
Council were pressed in 1596 by forcing
conversion to this new church under
catholic control both the Catholic
Church and the Polish nobility extended
their control over the pocket of the
Ukrainian population but this forced
conversion I think should be seen as a
kind of genocide over a one soon
people this religious division is most
it is to this day mostly as that was in
Galicia that's where the Union Church is
strongest but in this way Poland
and the Roman Catholic Church were able
to tear apart tear tear away I'm sorry a
part of the Ukrainian people and oh and
a piece of territory from the Ukrainian
people really forever after 300 years
this church does become deeply
entrenched in Valencia and Bukovina and
I want to stress that CIA documents
which now have been Declassified
regarding Ukrainian and I mean there's
extensive documents a lot of them don't
have a lot of information but I think
one thing that comes out if you if you
read them and you should read them is
that almost so many of them repeat over
and over again that those most likely to
support Ukrainian nationalist movements
or Ukrainian fascism were unions members
of the Ukrainian church this is not as
true today as it was say 34 years ago
but for the 20th century it was very
true in the 1660s there were massive
uprisings though by some Ukrainians and
in central Ukraine and eastern Ukraine
against the Polish nobility these were
led by Cossacks and their headman
leaders and these territories actually
fought to rejoin Russia and did so
ultimately leaving just that
northwestern portion in Poland the
Galicia
that's why that remains unions to this
day but ironically this is hailed today
by Ukrainian nationalist historians as a
great moment in the Ukrainian history
which it is even though it provides it
is a precedent for what's going on in
eastern Ukraine today a group of crane
Ian's who do not want to be part of this
colonial of this Colombian ISM which
then was a Poland today of the United
States and the West Poland was finally
partitioned and swallowed up by Prussia
Russia and Austria in late 1700s and
during the first partition in 1772 the
lithium Bukovina were taken over by
austria the austrian empire
Austria's so from 1772 to 1918 1919
galicia
and Bukovina are part of the Austral
austrian empire later austro-hungarian
empire
Austria's ruling Habsburg monarchy were
the chief protectors of the Roman
Catholic Church and the first
practitioners of this of what became
known as the German imperialist idea of
Levin's realm
the Austrians relaxed the serfdom in
Galicia and Bukovina
and in 1848 thanks to the revolutions of
that year completely abolished serfdom
but they increase the pressure on the
Ukrainian population through religious
persecution
thousands of Jesuits were sent into
these territories and even beyond the
terror the Ukrainian territories into
the Russian Empire with the goal of
subverting the Orthodox Church and
converting people to the to the union's
Church so we can see here the beginnings
of German imperialism in Galicia and
beyond in effect the order of the
the Greek Ukrainian Greek Catholic
Church served as a springboard for what
became known as the wrong knock Austin
or Germany's drive to the east and this
was a Habsburg policy before it was a
Bismarck Ian policy or a Hitler in
policy so Galicia was this beachhead for
austro-german expansionism to the east
and the Union Church was the vehicle by
the way the Habsburg followed a similar
policy in the Balkans as the Union
Church converted orthodox serves in the
southern Austrian territories and
expanded Croatia step-by-step resuming
Orthodox populations under Roman
Catholic Church and austro-german
control over the course of this long
foreign occupation from the 1300s until
World War one Catholic rulers solidified
their rule and their cultural influence
they preached hatred of Russians and of
Russian orthodoxy and of Jews and of
Judaism this is the origin of ukrainian
fascism instigated by German imperialism
but it does take a life of its own the
first great leader of ukrainian
nationalism in modern times was not
surprisingly a Ukrainian Greek Catholic
or Union cleric from Galicia
Semyon peddler he tried to hidden in in
the 1890s he tried like the Jesuits
before him they tried to infiltrate
Russian Orthodox seminaries in order to
subvert him he was eventually expelled
and
reveal and he joined an organization
called revolutionary cranium party which
became which became this main vehicle
for promoting Ukrainian national extreme
Ukrainian nationals prior to 1914 though
he was just known as an ultra national
Journal's but the Russian Revolution
thrust him into power he became the
military leader of the self-proclaimed
ukrainian republic which was declared in
November of 1917 and he even designed
the Ukrainian flag which is still the
Ukrainian flag to this day he proclaimed
Ukrainian as the only official language
in the Ukraine banning all others
exactly what the government that came to
power after nineteen in 19 2014 did
recently he and like today's Ukrainian
nationalists he condemned all quote
foreign elements in the Ukraine meaning
Jews Russians and poles but in Galicia
in particular poles and Jews actually
made up the majority of the population
there were two million Jews and there
were two million Jews in the Ukraine not
to mention millions of Russians as well
so what what to do as military leader of
the Ukrainian Republic yet Laura
organized 1204 grumbles from 1917 to
1920 killing 200,000 Jews in this period
eleven and when the Russian and Jewish
workers in Kiev rose up in Revolt around
the famous Arsenal factory he murdered
calling them foreign invaders Pat Laura
so this is this is the background of
today's Ukrainian nationalism this is
this is the these are the precedents and
the heroes of their movement today
peddler personally led a pogrom in my
gran
father's town of Josh gova in central
Ukraine
most of my grandfather's family most of
my family survived two were shot but
most survived because we were able to
purchase our lives Jews without money
were marched to the synagogue and burned
alive and this story was recounted to me
about my grandfather's sister 33 years
ago we were so you're lucky just to get
robbed by Laura the Germans occupied the
Ukraine briefly in 1918 and saw the
possibility of using the Ukrainian
regime for their own expansionist
aspirations but they lost the war and
they had to retreat the Soviets came
back peddlers and cut Laura's armies
retreated into Poland they made a deal
with kill suits Keys government in
Poland and in night in the polish-soviet
war of 1920 Pasillas armies managed to
retake a good portion of the western
ukraine but they ended up just stabbing
the Ukrainians in the back and pet
Laura's men were all arrested and sent
to internment camps in 1921 Laura
himself ran away in Paris where he was
he got his his what was coming to him
from a Jewish survivor from one of the
bombs killed him in revenge for the
murder of his parents
thousands of Western Ukrainians fought
who had fought with Pitt Laura were
imprisoned in Poland and they remained
well organized it's ironic that thanks
to their imprisonment kept Laura's men
were able to organize themselves and
shortly after Pat Laura's assassination
the future
fascists Ukrainian organization came out
of these internment camps the
organization
crania Nationals or oh um the oun
organization of Ukrainian nationalists
would be the political organization of
Ukrainian fascism during World War two
it's known for having two branches one
led by a man named Melnick the other by
the infamous Stefan Bandera who is today
hailed as one of the great heroes of
Ukrainian nationalism what was the
difference between these two factions
not actually Bandera was really the man
in charge was the head was the leader
but the main difference was that Melanie
and his faction were fine with the Nazis
making all the decisions including
decisions about the fate of whether
there should be an Iranian state or not
or simply the Ukrainians live under
German rule Bandera did not agree with
that but darris faction did not agree
with that their position was to oppose
Hitler and the Nazi regime if they did
not allow the creation of a Ukrainian
state during the 1930s of course the
Nazis supported the organization of
Ukrainian nationalists the UN carried
out assassinate killed murders of Polish
political leaders including the Interior
Minister for which Bandera and several
other leaders of the oun were arrested
but they were all released after the
Nazis invaded in September of 1939 the
from 1939 to 1941 the oun was engaged in
training and preparation for the
invasion and occupation of the Soviet
Union particularly the Ukrainian
territories I should add that the Soviet
Union occupied Galicia Bukovina rulinea
between 1939 and 1941 so that was part
of the agreement between
Germany and Soviet Union one of the
founders of the oun besides Bandera and
Melanie who is an extraordinarily
important figure in 20th century history
and you may not know him and he was a
tremendously successful Ukrainian
fascists was me cola leaded some of you
may be familiar with him
he graduated from a Gestapo training
school and became the chief and from
1939 to 41 became the chief torturer of
political prisoners in Cracow murdering
poles and Jews and Russians whoever he
came in contact by early 1941 the UN
also had recruited tens of thousands of
soldiers for military service several
thousand of them would form two
Ukrainian battalions that Nachtigal and
Rowland battalions who would be in the
vanguard of the invasion of Galicia and
Western Ukraine there were thousands of
other a UN soldiers who were put into
units known as the Nazi hilf police I or
the Nazi auxilary police I don't think
we should forget about those thousands
of oun soldiers because their job was to
help the Einsatzgruppen carry out the
holocaust and so hit you so even though
they don't get much attention I think
that they're worth paying some attention
to because then the Isis group intended
not to want to kill the women and
children that was left up to the Nazi
hill-hill football inside the Ukrainian
auxilary poles they also served also a
certain number of Ukrainian own un men
were sent to serve in as guards and in
the new death camps in Poland although
it's Sobibor triplicates
and so so these this Oh UN played an
enormous role in in killing millions of
people in in World War two and all of
the ukrainian units were always staffed
with with a retinue of Ukrainian Greek
Catholic clergy the nocta golf battalion
captured live or live on June 29 1941
the next day ponderous deputy Yaroslav
Stetz co announced on radio the
independent state of the Ukraine without
Nazi approval
he declared Bandera would be the
President's desk oh would be the prime
minister by the West Ezio is still hail
today as one of the great figures in
Ukrainian history by the ukrainian
nationalists today i think this is
universally agreed upon by foreign
nationals and Lebon
as Minister of the Interior good job
Priam steps though then declared in this
radio broadcast quote I support the
destruction of the Jews and of bringing
German methods of exterminating jewelry
to Ukraine Jews we will lay your heads
at Hitler's feet unquote Bandera who we
are told as [ __ ] was just who were told
today by the Ukrainian nationalists is
just a good was just a good Ukrainian
Patriot also made the following comments
to the media quote Jews constitute the
most faithful support of the ruling
Bolshevik regime and the vanguard of
muscovite imperialism in Ukraine true to
their word the oun battalions killed
twelve thousand Jews in just July and
August 1941 although the Nazis of course
did not support what the oun was doing
and so by September Banderas gets going
live it were arrested and put in a very
comfortable
in comfortable apartments in the sucks
in housing concentration camp even
though it was a concentration camp they
were allowed to have telephones and and
communication and come to go actually
but by 1943 the Germans began to lose
the war and that's when they changed
their policies as they were losing the
war they began to give the oun more
power so they began first they created
the Ukrainian SS division the 14th SS
division valencian and then in 1944 the
Nazis said go ahead take it
take the Ukraine as the Nazis were
retreating and the oun all the oun
leaders were then released in 1944 and
they established instead of the oun they
replaced that with something called the
supreme Ukrainian liberation council
which would exist until the 1990s by the
way this is the fascist government in
exile that the United States and the CIA
supported all through right up until the
1990s and it's Army would be called the
UPA or the Ukrainian insurgent army
their first mission killed 10,000 poles
in Galicia to reduce the numbers
remember I told you in Galicia poles and
Jews made up a majority of the
population well they already took care
of the Jews now it's time to kill some
poles in 80 separate operations on just
one day they managed to kill 10,000
poles Soviet forces over and the UPA and
along with 250,000 other valencian
Ukrainians Bandera fled to the American
and British occupation zones in Germany
they survived but German imperialism
would no longer be their employer now it
fell to the United States and Britain in
in 1998 there's a very interesting
history there was commissioned by the
CIA a secret history which was then
Declassified in 2006 actually entitled
quote Cold War allies : the origins of
CIA relationships with Ukrainian
national
the author was Kevin Ruffner according
to this report the strategic service
unit which was the precursor it was in
between the OSS and the CIA precursor
CIA began to recruit quote espionage
agents unquote
from among Ukrainian fascists
immediately after the war ended in 1945
I think this is an important point from
the DP camps the report goes on to say
that the SS this is now this is the CIA
talking not me the SSU
recruited them because the u.s. like its
ally Great Britain expected war to break
out or to be created with the Soviet
Union immediately the US government
wanted these agents for two purposes
according to the CIA report one covert
operations in Soviet territory and two
pattern military operations in Soviet
territory now this comes from the CIA's
Vulcan House history within a few years
also 12,000 Ukrainian fascists would be
imported to the United States despite
their war crimes so contrary to an
anti-fashion to the image of an
anti-fascist American government at the
end of World War two who would never
start the Cold War mind you we instead
see the CIA telling us in their own
in-house history then yes the Soviet
image portrayed of the US as a Nazi
loving imperialist aggressor hell-bent
on with Russia was in fact the truth it
also this report also confirms what
Soviet so-called propaganda was saying
that the USSR and the Warsaw Pact allies
were on the receiving end of decades of
u.s. sponsored covert military
operations from the beginning of 1946
all the way to 1991 the United States
Britain and Russia had
the Moscow agreement of 1943 promising
to return returned war criminals to
their countries where they committed
their crimes but the US and Britain
violated this agreement from day one and
didn't begin to get concerned about war
criminals until they had to fight until
they had to break up your Slavia and
arrest Serbs for war crimes according to
this CIA history by 1946 the SSU had
compiled extensive records on thousands
of Ukrainian fascists and you can read
these these are online actually and
we're working hard to get them
operational for terrorist attacks the
CIA report calls these terrorist attacks
from 1947 to 54 the CIA
organized dozens of military raids by
UPA
soldiers into Soviet territory meanwhile
CIA director Allen Dulles and NSA
adviser George Kennan push to bring tens
of ten more thousands of Ukrainian
fascists and other fascists into the
United States for quote national
security reasons
Chris Simpson a historian who has
written a book called blowback wrote
something that's very interesting about
this he said the the US with its
ratlines brought war criminals into the
United States but they didn't just
disappear into the population instead
they established new cells in their
various ethnic communities in a and not
just in the United States but in all
countries and they were headed by the
same men who led the murder squads and
survived and spread these movements
thanks to the United States and the CIA
and they are active to this day and they
pose a threat to the world and in the
end they poisoned and not safai the very
political cultures of the host countries
- I think that's truly blowback that's
exactly what / Simpson wanted to get
across in a wonderful
many years ago until 1954 the Union
priests even cleaning oak was the
recognized leader by the CIA of
Ukrainian fascism Ukrainian nationalism
of the supreme Ukrainian council and on
every CIA report about Karenia that I've
read anyway
it usually says two things one quote the
subject is aware he is working with the
CIA and to quote could be the leader of
an independent Ukraine in times of war
with the USSR but at the end of 54 honey
look simply resigned and and from that
point on until the 1990s the man who
became the global leader of the
Ukrainian fascist and ultra nationalist
movement was Nikola lemon lemon was very
well protected by the CIA he lived in a
very comfortable house in Yonkers in
Westchester County maybe near Westfall I
don't know he was given several CIA
funded companies the most notable was
prologue which was a global operation
which was which received tens of
millions of dollars at the very at the
very minimum every year from the CIA and
did all kinds of publishing including
anti-russian anti-soviet publishing what
happened to Brent Bandera instead so and
Aaron's debts go continue to have their
operation based in Munich and from 47
until 52 they were supported by mi6 in
my sector and their their operation but
their operations were continually
getting clobbered in when they went when
they did their opposite soviet union of
course the British they know at the time
was kim Philby who was filling in the
soviets about what was going on after 52
West Germany spy agency
the agency this VND which was still
headed at that time by Galen the former
Nazi intelligence head took over and
financed by Derek and steps codes
operation until 1959 this is something
that's not very well known that West
Germany continued to sponsor fascist
operations against the Soviet Union in
the 1950s at that at that point the CIA
was willing to give Bandera another try
at 59 but just before he was to leave
for Washington he was captured by a KGB
guy and killed they sprayed cyanide in
his face so that was the end of Bandera
instead scope Leben went on to become a
major figure in the Republican Party he
was a he was also very close to the
Democrats in the 1970s he was a close
friend and confidant of Speaker Newt
Brzezinski he was a group using advisor
to speaker deficiency and a very close
friend with Jimmy Carter by the way a
Nazi Jimmy Carter oh he's such a
humanitarian he's friends with Nazis
come on Ronald Reagan and George Bush of
course were good friends as well and he
was financed regularly right up until
1992 when he was no longer needed but by
the time Levitt died in 1998 he was he
was able to take great satisfaction in
seeing that his success the new
generation of neo-fascist
Ukrainian Union forces had taken his
place so for example in 1991 Levitt was
able to meet with the social National
Party which was founded by among others
all their tea a book by the way at that
time that party today is called Spa
motive but at that time was called the
social National Party what does that
mean it means National Socialists right
its symbols were a swastika today of
course I said that party is called
Swoboda it's dropped its Nazi symbols
but its youth organization
has in fact continued the racist
rhetoric and is has has spun off a whole
series of paramilitary neo-nazi
organizations including the most recent
the most very well known neo-nazi
battalion the Azov battalion which is
therefore actually a spin-off of sivadas
youth organization and now is based in
Mariupol and is on the front lines
fighting against novorossiya against the
eastern Ukrainian Russian and Russian
population there and but you know
there's such a proliferation now they
have come about in the in the last 10
years of neo-nazi or paramilitary groups
youth organizations that no one and
Savona doesn't want sobota is means
motive is a very dishonest and dangerous
organization I think we can agree the
fact that it pretends to be a mainstream
and anti-fascist organization is just
not true based on what we know about all
the spin-offs from this from this party
now of course so vota has lost quite a
bit as a result of the recent elections
in 2014 they went from having 37
delegates in lerato which was about 11%
to now having only 6 but the the reality
is is that there's so many all turn a
tional esthetical organizations behind
for support in the ukraine today that
there's no one single one that is able
to to become the center of this of this
movement which is the rich is really an
adjunct to the popular face of the
problem poroshenko
so what we have and then the rest of the
last few years is I don't even have to
talk about perhaps the other speaker
will talk about I mean we know Victoria
Nuland has has mentioned and ambassador
Piatti has mentioned that the US and CIA
spent four billion dollars in helping
the Maidan protesters overthrow the
Democrat the last democratically elected
president of the Ukraine young
Yanukovych what they have done is they
have destroyed any possibility of any
kind of workable democratically elected
unified Ukraine
humpty-dumpty has fallen and he's not
going to be put back together and so now
the question is what what's next
partition seems to be the only solution
thank you very much
[Applause]